We've now got our API key all set up inside of our cluster and we have installed the Stripe library
into our payments project.
And before we open up our route handler and make use of the Stripe library itself, we're going to first
create a separate file that is going to be responsible for importing and instantiating a copy of the
Stripe Library.
Let me show you how to do that.
Inside the CRC directory, I'll make a new file called Stripe.
Then inside of here, we're going to import Stripe from Stripe.
And before we make use of this, this is really a class right here.
And to make use of the Stripe library, we have to create an instance out of that class.
The entire purpose of this file is to really just create an instance out of this stripe library and
then export it so it can be used in other locations inside of our project.
So I'm going to do an export const stripe is new stripe.
And then to this object right here or the constructor, we're going to provide two different arguments.
The first argument is going to be our API key, and you might recall we already wired that up.
It should be accessible inside of our project as process EMV dot stripe underscore key.
As usual, TypeScript doesn't really believe that we have properly defined this environment variable,
so we're going to tell TypeScript don't sweat it and put the exclamation on their.
Then as a second argument, we're going to provide an options object inside this object.
We're going to enter an API version.
When you start to enter a string for the API version, you might get some autocomplete pop up.
If you get autocomplete and you see a date different than mine, then go ahead and use it.
Otherwise, if you do not see any autocomplete at all, then use exactly what I'm using right here,
which is 2020 0302.
Okay.
So we've now got a single file that's going to import stripe, create an instance of this library,
and make it available to the rest of our project.
So now we can take this back over to our route handler, import the Stripe instance, and use it to
charge a user's credit card.
Back inside my roots directory.
I'll find the new file.
Not the very top.
I will add in import or stripe from upland directory.
All right.
So now the question is, how do we actually charge a user's credit card using the stripe library?
Well, I pulled up some documentation so we can take a look at it and get a better idea of how we actually
take some token that is going to be incoming to our rent handler and charge some money with it.
If you want to follow along, you can navigate to the official Stripe documentation at Stripe slash
doc slash API.
Once here on the left hand side, we're going to scroll down a little bit and find a section called
charges.
So a charge once again, this is how we actually charge some money to a user's credit card.
We want to find the section inside of here called Create a Church.
That's what we're trying to do right now.
You can see a code example over here on the right.
So we've already made our instance of the Stripe library.
And if we want to create a charge and build a user for some amount of money, we're going to call Stripe
charges create and then we will provide some options inside of an object.
There are technically only two options that are required, but we're going to enter in possibly a third
or fourth.
So the first two things that are required are in amount property.
And it's really important to note that the amount property is not going to be in units of dollars.
Instead, Stripe works by the smallest currency unit, as they refer to right here, which in the US
currency system is sense, not dollars.
So as we have been handling ticket prices throughout our app, we've always been treating those ticket
prices as dollars.
And we just need to make sure that before we create a charge, we convert that dollar value into cents,
which essentially means we just need to multiply it by 100.
The second required option is a currency code.
So me, I'm working with the US dollars.
I'm going to put in a currency code of USD.
Now there is technically another required property, even though they really market as optional is the
source property.
So this is where we are going to be charging some money from.
There are many different viable sources we can provide, but one viable source to create a charge from
is a token.
And as I've said many times, this token is going to be coming into our request and we can essentially
view this token as kind of a pre authorization thing, something that says here's something that represents
a credit card and we can build it for some amount of money.
Now.
Optionally, we could also provide a description property.
The description property is not really used for anything related to the charge itself.
Instead, it's just a little description to go along with the charge.
It will show up on our stripe dashboard and possibly show it to users as well when they actually look
at their credit card billing statements.
So if we wanted to, we could definitely fill in a description as well, but I'm not going to include
it.
Okay.
So that all in mind.
Let's go back over to our editor.
We're going to make use of the stripe thing created charge and add in a couple of different options.
I'm going to scroll down a little bit.
And right after we do our three checks right here.
I'll then do and await stripe dot charges create.
Well then provide those three different options.
So first is currency, which will be at USD.
Next up is the amount of money that we want to charge, which will be the amount as order price.
And again, that is a dollar value right there.
So we need to convert it into cents by multiplying by 100.
And finally, we also have to provide a source for this charge where the money is going to come from.
And that's going to be the token that is incoming into our request handler.
We've already structured off that token property, off the request body, so we can just enter in token
like so.
And that should be it.
That should create a charge and build a user for some amount of money.
It's going to save this as is.
But as you could guess.
Well, we probably want to somehow test this out to make sure it works as expected.
Let's take a pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to figure out some way to manually test this, then
eventually write an automated test around it.